the health Ministry in Gaza says at
least 35 people have been killed and
dozens more injured in an Israeli air
strike on Rafa the Hamas run Ministry
says the strike hit an area where
thousands of displaced civilians are
Sheltering Israel confirmed its military
did carry out an attack on Rafa and says
the strike killed two Hamas commanders
it also said it was report investigating
reports that civilians were harmed as a
result the strike came just days after
the international court of justice in
the ha ordered Israel to stop its
assault on
Rafa homes of displaced garans burned to
the
ground after an Israeli air strike in
the southern city of
Rafa Israel's Army maintains it was
targeting a Hamas compound and Ed
precise weapons against legitimate
targets
[Music]
however Israel says it is reviewing the
incident Hamas has called it a heinous
Massacre we were safely sitting at the
door of the House suddenly we heard the
sound of a missile we ran and found a
street covered in Smoke we couldn't see
anything when we checked over the wall
we found a girl and the young man who
had been cut into pieces
we got are
clear gaza's Hamas run Health Ministry
said dozens are
dead the International Red Cross also
confirmed that hospitals were seeing an
influx of wounded
people earlier on
Sunday Aid Sirens rang out in Tel
Aviv sending people running down into
bomb shelters until the danger
passed the Salvo of rockets fired from
Gaza left debris outside of a school
today Hamas terrorists in Gaza fired
eight rockets at Central Israel from
Rafa sending millions of Israelis to
bomb
shelters Hamas launched this Rockets
from near two mosques in Rafa Kamas has
been attacking Israel from Rafa and
Hamas has been holding in our holding
our hostages in Rafa a Hama spokesperson
said the barage was a response to high
civilian deaths at the hands of the
Israeli
military I asked Marina who's a
military expert at King's College London
to give us her assessment of Israel's
strike in
Rafa good day Ana well the situation is
very difficult so so from an Israeli
point of view there was a military
necessity to conduct that strike now the
problem is that military necessity is
not the only consideration that should
be made proportionality for one is
another very important aspect in the
international law of war is that
proportion of the damage that that
strike would create and I think this is
a crucial question here could Israel
have used other means for instance using
troop snipers perhaps in order to
eliminate those two commanders of Hamas
without damaging the civilians and
Israel has been repeatedly criticized
for these indiscriminate attacks and I
think that this is of course um playing
into the hands of Hamas and now
displaying what atrocities Israel is
Comm committing in
Gaza uh yesterday Hamas fired several
rockets at Tel Aviv in Israel tell us
what this um tells us about hamas's
military
capacity well there have been some
reports about hamas's military
capabilities and throughout this war
from October 7th onwards both sides have
been fighting an information war and
both sides were trying to portray
themselves in a specific light um
According to some reports at least 13d
of Hamas Fighters has been eliminated by
the IDF but as we see Hamas still has
capabilities and I think the strike they
have conducted after so many months of
war is also symbolic to show to Israel
that Hamas is not being close to being
defeated and I believe um Hamas might
not have any more of advanced weapons
because of the difficulties of importing
spare parts but I do think that they
still retain some um long range rockets
and therefore I assume that we will be
seeing more of these strikes in the
coming weeks as the operation unfolds in
Raa and what about the Hamas
infrastructure I mean does the network
of tunnels in Gaza for example still
play an important role in this
War I think it absolutely is because the
issue with the tunnels has never been
completely resolved by the IDF um some
tunnels have been discovered and um have
been taken under control or at least um
out of operation however it is estimated
that some 50% of tunnels are still
functioning and this is a way that Hamas
still can move
underground uh what we're seeing now is
that it's trying to regroup and recover
in the north for instance a territory
believed to have been under control by
the IDF so they they will continue using
this tunnel infrastructure which is
giving them a certain leverage over the
idea okay now Israel says that hamas's
last remaining battalions are in Rafa
but there have been reports that Hamas
is regrouping in the north is Israel
getting any closer to achieving its
military goal of eliminating
Hamas correct um so what we have to
understand here is that the size of
Hamas is very flexible so the size of
this grouping and this leads us to the
first question about the incident um at
that refugee camp because for every
single terrorist killed there will be
another 10 perhaps willing to join the
organization and I'm talking in
theoretical terms um one man's terrorist
is another man's Freedom Fighter so it's
all a matter of perspective and from the
Palestinian perspective from the
perspective of the gazin whose family
members get killed by Israeli forces
even if they were not on the side of
Hamas before October 7 um now they are
seeing this destruction and racking hav
obervation in Gaza they will be much
more inclined to join Hamas to join
their ranks because they share that
ideology so in other words you can
destroy Hamas militarily probably that
is possible but you cannot destroy them
ideologically and indiscriminate and
disproportionate attacks which risk uh
severe civilian casualties even if it's
considered as a collateral
damage risk um perpetuating the cycle of
violence creating even more Fighters so
I think we're not getting any closer a
political
solution it should be thought about
because militarily you cannot resolve
this conflict Marina Maron military
expert from Kings College London Marina
thank you so much as ever